mind your decisions I'm presto Walker
they say 1% can solve this problem you
need to select three of the balls and
place them in the circles such that the
numbers on the balls have a sum of 30
you're allowed to use a number more than
once but you must use exactly three of
the balls this problem was sent to me by
email and there are many popular
variations of this puzzle across the
internet I thought this was a fun
variation I wanted to share pause the
video if you'd like to give this problem
a try and when you're ready keep
watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
recall the rules of parity an even
number plus or minus an even number will
always be an even number an even number
plus or minus an odd number will always
be an odd number finally an odd number
be an even number in this problem we're
only dealing with sums in particular we
want the sum of three odd numbers to get
that we'll add an odd number to both
sides of the very last equation we end
up with the result of an even number
plus an odd number which we know from
the second rule is equal to an odd
number therefore the sum of three odd
numbers will always be an odd number so
how can we get three numbers to have a
sum of 30 if we're limited to the odd
numbers from 1 to 15
we can't it's mathematically impossible
but this is not strictly a mathematical
problem this is a puzzle so what's the
trick the clue is that the balls have
the same colors as billiard balls take a
look at the green colored ball we can
orient it in three-dimensional space in
particular you might know the trivia
that the green colored ball in a
standard set of billiard balls is the
number 6 we turned the 9 upside down to
get the even number 6 we then solve the
puzzle by adding the numbers 11 and 13 6
plus 11 plus 13 is equal to 30 and
that's the answer to this puzzle there's
an important lesson when a problem seems
impossible try changing your perspective
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]